having a personal brand is your cheat
sheet and if you're someone who's over
40 let me tell you it has never been
easier and more important for you to
create your personal brand your personal
brand is the thing that draws people to
you you don't have to spend as much time
marketing you don't have to try as hard
to help people understand what it is
that your product is about or your
service when people fall in love with
your personal brand it makes all of that
so much easier and your success is far
more you should be spending so much more
time on your personal brand than
anything else and today on this edition
of build your tribe I'm going to cover
the five ways that you someone who's
over 40 can increase awareness and
really help the world discover your
personal
brand my name is shelene Johnson thanks
so much for joining me my co-host is my
son Brock and while I think it's really
important for you know that younger
generation to start building their
personal brand like the ultimate
Advantage is for us those of you who are
over 40 this is something I'm super
passionate about for many reasons the
first of which is because having a
personal brand is the ultimate cheat
code it's the cheat code that people
forget they think it's about getting
followers they think it's about having a
certain look they think it's about a
certain position or where they came into
a company or if they're a Founder none
of that really matters the reason why
people buy and who we buy from are
individuals we don't necessarily buy
from Brands more often than not we we
fall in love with an individual we start
to follow them then we like them we feel
comfortable with them there's something
that's relatable we trust them and when
we trust people that's when we buy from
people your personal brand is the thing
that I want you to focus on more than
anything else because when you have a
personal brand you have success
not just in what you're doing right now
but what you're doing in the future and
because I've been teaching and coaching
entrepreneurs for more than 25 years I
can tell you I've seen this happen
firsthand knowledge I've seen so many
people who whatever they're doing now
they're not doing five years later maybe
their company closed or maybe they've
decided to go off on their own and the
people who
struggle people who make the biggest
mistake are the people who focus on a
product and focus on selling instead of
leading with their personal brand like
what it is that's important to you so I
want to share with you five things that
I think are incredibly important in 2024
when it comes to building your personal
brand and the first thing I want to tell
you like before I even get into the five
is this now and I I don't want you if
you're under 40 I love you but like
unfortunately the advantage in 2024 2025
is going to be with those who are over
finally right and the reason why is
because that group of individuals they
want to buy from people who are about
their age or older and they've got the
most money and we have the older you get
you learn this kids you start to get a
very fine-tuned BS meter right and so
the individuals who want to be your
customers who are 40 50 60 70 years old
they can sniff out in authen authentic
phony BS who's this kid think they're
fooling they can sniff that out so
that's why you've got such an advantage
as a 40 plus person building your
personal brand you are trending right
now on Tik Tok on YouTube on Instagram
these are the accounts that are gaining
the the most traction the biggest amount
of followers these are the individuals
that brands are actually looking for
because they know there's this like
degree of trust that comes with AG okay
so what do you need to focus on first as
you're like trying to build your
personal brand remember that person we
over complicate that word like personal
brand like you've got to pick out your
colors and uh a font and a special way
of writing your name n none of that's
true your personal brand is it's just
your reputation it's what people know
you for so building your personal Brands
brand means we need to make sure people
know who you are and what does you stand
for it's kind of like taking out the
most impactful parts of you like the
pieces that are just a little bit
different and putting them out to the
world and I really do mean it when I say
just a little bit different to have a
personal brand you don't have to be like
the first person who ever did something
or have purple hair you don't have to be
someone who knows how to do magic tricks
or someone who's invented something
unique your personal brand what makes
you unique are just the little teeny
tiny things that make you you when I
first started teaching consumer Fitness
videos so when I first started doing
videos for consumers there's a million
other people doing Fitness videos I mean
think of all the famous people you you
knew in the 2000s who were doing Fitness
videos it was like the time of
infomercials what made me different were
like little things that you probably the
average person like you don't even
identify them like for example the first
time I went to film a video the director
was like oh you have those big giant
Hoops on you might want to take those
off for for the video you you're like a
fitness person and they also suggested
that I cut down my nails I'm
like excuse me we don't do either like
that's not me like I I would feel so
weird if I took off my na my fake nails
and my fake earrings and my fake hair
like no it costs a lot of money to look
this cheap and I embrace it like and I
want people that's a little something
that's different a little something that
was different was just like the way that
I talked it was the way that I felt the
music like it's little things about your
personality they don't even have to
relate to your business it's just like
the little things that your friends and
family members are like I love that
about you maybe it's the way that you
talk maybe it's your accent your sense
of humor your style like all of these
little things the way that you teach
maybe you've got attention deficit
disorder ADHD there's so many things
that if you're proud here's the deal if
you're proud of them if these are the
things that tend to attract your friends
it's probably what you should like make
a bigger deal like emphasize it more
when you're in social media and that's
step one step one is just like being so
self-aware of the things that are just a
little different and you like that about
yourself and you want to attract other
people that like that that's step one
step two content creation constant
content creation if you want to build
your personal brand it's not like if you
build it they will come you have to
build it and you have to post it that
means you need to be creating content
every single day just one video that
that's my assignment to you is create
one video a day and just talk direct to
camera don't worry about what you need
to talk about just something that you're
passionate about today make a list and
create content every single day because
the only way to build your personal
brand is for people to become aware of
you and that means you've got to be
creating content daily and I know this
is a little bit of tough love but listen
if you're serious about this open up
your phone and create some content
content the good news is right now
people are no longer into the like
highly produced with like font text
flying in and jump cuts no there's a new
style that's trending on all the
platforms and it's called easy mode easy
mode has fewer edits less pomp in
circumstance no fancy thumbnails nothing
like it's literally somebody opening up
their camera and talking directly to
camera and being authentic and real
that's what we're looking for if you
want a homework assignment search easy
mode on YouTube and you'll in fact
search easy mode 40 plus or over 40 and
you'll see exactly what I'm talking
about but the good news is is like you
don't have to be a whiz at editing you
just need to open up your phone and make
a video which leads me to step three
which is leveraging all the platforms oh
thank goodness the social media has
evolved to this stage where like you can
create one long form video and all the
platforms now are they're looking for
longer form videos even Instagram so
film it obviously you know not obviously
for most people vertical right oh by the
way I love this look at this water
bottle this is I'm not affiliated with
this company but look at
this it's called get ringo.
anyways I this is why I have this water
bottle because this makes filming
content so convenient because I always
have my water bottle with me and then I
don't have to go grab a tripod I
digress where were we back to filming
vertical so you're just going to film it
like this film one video about 3 minutes
two minutes whatever you're comfortable
with and then take that video and post
it to YouTube shorts post it to Tik Tok
post it to Instagram and post it to
Facebook post it to all for they all
want longer form video which is amazing
you don't have to do any special edits
write a strong caption and use all the
platforms because we don't know which
one's going to pop off you never know
which one is going to pop off but just
create one video and post it to all of
them step number four to building your
personal brand really boils down to
engagement it's a relationship that's
what a personal a personal brand is it's
a parasocial relationship
but people need to feel like they know
you and so the days of like just
creating content where you're just like
a talking head and you're not
encouraging a conversation with your
audience that's going to make you grow a
lot slower we want to feel like we know
someone like it's only possible when
you're actually having conversations
with your community and we don't have
conversations at our community we have
conversations with our community in 2024
2025 and moving forward that's what
people want nobody wants to follow
someone because they're a star or
they're like you know the center of the
universe or they think that they're the
center of the universe we want to follow
people we want to engage with people who
it's like okay they get me they un
they've been where I've been they're
listening to me they're actually
listening so that is a really big key to
Growing your personal brand is make sure
your
content engages people how do you do
that ask questions and every single post
that you make ask every single time you
post to your Instagram stories or Tik
Tok stories or wherever it is you're
posting maybe it's the a Facebook post
instead of telling people something ask
people something regularly engage your
audience and my number five tip for
growing your personal brand in 2024 and
2025 is you've got to embrace new
technologies this is a shortcut so even
if you feel a little bit resistant to AI
like chat PT or my personal favorite
which is perplexity love them both but
if you Embrace those you are going to
have such an
advantage you don't have to be a master
at using these you just need to know how
to ask a question you don't need to H
you don't have to have any fancy way of
writing the prompt or even asking the
question you can ask it in the most
basic plain language you could ever
imagine and you're like I don't even
know if this makes sense but here's what
I'm asking type it in type that prompt
into chat GPT and let it ask you
additional questions you can use that
technology like AI to help you develop
content that promotes and helps you to
to illuminate your personal brand you
can ask chat PT to give you a list of
captions related to a particular topic
you can ask chat GPT okay here's what I
want to talk about give me some great
questions to help me build engagement
you can ask AI to do absolutely anything
it's mindblowing if you're not using
chat GPT I promise you this if you're
not using AI you will be left
behind it's just too easy it's too easy
it's like having your own team you can
use chat GPT for creating graphics and
fonts and and there's so many new forms
of AI that will help you to accelerate
the speed at which people are going to
learn about your brand and then finally
the last technology I want to tell you
to embrace is to embrace video editing
apps my two favorites are video leap and
cap
cut so go ahead and lower lower that
little voice in your head right now that
was like oh I'm so bad at technology and
my phone no no no turn the volume off on
that you can get this sit down next to a
20-year-old or a teenager and say hey
can you show me how to use one of these
app video leap or cap cut those are the
two the biggest they make your life so
much easier so here's one quick little
tip you can upload that 3 minute video
that you just created the one where you
like have long pauses between your
thoughts you don't have to stop the
camera you don't have to edit that just
ramble you can pause and you can look at
your
notes just one continuous video then you
upload it to an app like video leap and
you just tap the button that says audio
eliminate
pauses and it's remarkable it'll give
you a perfectly edited video with one
click Embrace Technologies it's going to
save you time it's going to help you
make money and it's going to help you
get the word out about your personal
brand at the speed of light my name is
shelene Johnson I'm very active on
Instagram and on YouTube so I would love
to have you follow me there and say
hello and thank you for giving me the
most important thing that you have which
is your time and I hope I delivered for
you and take care bye guys
[Music]